FiBo-337: Add test plan (#84)
Cebox82/FiBo: docs/FiBo_RUP_Main_Test_Plan.md

#  FiBo Main Test Plan
Version: 1.0

> Note: The following template is provided for use with the Rational Unified Process. Text displayed like this is included to provide guidance to the author and should be deleted before publishing the document.

Adapted according to: https://sceweb.uhcl.edu/helm/RationalUnifiedProcess/webtmpl/templates/test/rup_tstpln.htm

## Revision History

| Date     | Version     | Description | Author |
| -------- | --------    | -------- | -------- |
| 31/05/2023     | 1.0        | Initial version     | FiBo Team (Chris, Jens, Jonas, Markus, Lars)     |

## Table of Contents

> [TOC]

Reviewer: Add TOC here

-->
| Title | Link |
| -------- | -------- |
| Blog     | [Wordpress](https://wordpress.com/view/fibo952390745.wordpress.com) |
| Code | [GitHub](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo/tree/master/android-app) |
| Documents | [GitHub](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo/tree/master/docs) |
| Codecov | [Codecov](https://app.codecov.io/gh/Cebox82/FiBo) |
| SonarCloud | [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=Cebox82_FiBo) |
| Backend README | [GitHub](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo/blob/master/backend/README.md) |
| CI/CD | [GitHub](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo/actions) |

<!--
#### 1.6 Document Structure
> This subsection outlines what the rest of the Test Plan contains and gives an introduction to how the rest of the document is organized. This section may be eliminated if a Table of Contents is used.
> -->

> ### 2. Evaluation Mission and Test Motivation (Chris)

Reviewer: Dont forget to remove the names in every headline

#### 6.2.3     Test Cycle Abnormal Termination
Occurring errors during the build terminate the test cycle.
  
### 7.     Deliverables (Markus)

#### 7.1     Test Evaluation Summaries
Test evaluation will be available online every time a Pull Request is merged into the main branch. The report is generated with the help of [CodeCov](https://codecov.io/gh/Cebox82/FiBo).
#### 7.2     Reporting on Test Coverage
After building and testing the master branch the resulting coverage is uploaded to [CodeCov](https://codecov.io/gh/Cebox82/FiBo).
[![code coverage score](https://codecov.io/gh/Cebox82/FiBo/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Cebox82/FiBo)
#### 7.3     Perceived Quality Reports
Code quality will be measured with SonarCloud. It will create a report for every pull request. The quality report status is showed by the following badge:
[![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=Cebox82_FiBo&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=Cebox82_FiBo)

#### 7.4     Incident Logs and Change Requests
(n/a) `weglassen?`
#### 7.5     Smoke Test Suite and Supporting Test Scripts

> (n/a) `weglassen?`

Reviewer: Here is the reason for n/a not given

#### 7.6      Additional Work Products
##### 7.6.1     Detailed Test Results
The following screenshot shows the unit test results after running with Android Studio:
![](https://pad.medialepfade.net/uploads/d646ea36-b2de-461d-9b81-cff2241c02cb.png)

This screenshot shows the results of running the UI tests:
![](https://pad.medialepfade.net/uploads/f20c290a-a21d-48ef-84c2-a561de453ac5.png)

This screenshot shows the results of running the Backend Django tests:

> ![](https://pad.medialepfade.net/uploads/24f957c4-7f43-4cae-998e-08c653645b38.png)

Reviewer 2: These Pictures should be uploaded to Github. We should not use the mediapad links, because they may become invalid

##### 7.6.2     Additional Automated Functional Test Scripts
(n/a because when running the UI tests, you already have everything scripted)

##### 7.6.3     Test Guidelines
In general all testable code should be tested. Due to time constraint this is of course not always possible. Therefore we set a bound of 70% for coverage.

##### 7.6.4     Traceability Matrices
(n/a) `weglassen?`

> 

Reviewer: See above mentioned comment

3. Commit to a branch of your choice and check if the following jobs are successfull: Android CI (for android UI and Unit tests), Django CI (for backend tests)
    

Second approach (Emulator):
1. Clone the [code](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo) to your local development machine
2. Set up an android device emulator in android-studio as decribed [here](https://developer.android.com/studio/run/managing-avds)  
3. Follow the instructions in the [backend README](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo/blob/master/backend/README.md) 
4. Start the newly created docker container 
5. Open the android app in Android Studio with the /android-app subfolder as root source
6. Do a Gradle sync
7. Right click on the test folders located in the /src subfolder
8. Click "Run All Tests" (The results should be the same as "Android CI" results)

If you want to test everything by hand, be sure to set the Build Variants as whished. Ideally you should use "release" if you want to interact with the backend.
![](https://pad.medialepfade.net/uploads/5de5f463-686c-4525-bc40-8ebdb519a7cc.png)

After that, you can run the emulator. Just click on "app" to select the correct run configuration. 

> Third approach (Real Android Device):
> 1. Clone the [code](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo) to your local development machine
> 2. Start the Project in Android Studio
> 3. Click on the menu option `Build` at the top
> 4. Select the submenu `BuildBundle(s) / APK`
> 5. Select `Build APK(s)`
> 6. go to `FiBo\android-app\app\build\outputs\apk\debug` and save the `app-debug.apk` from your development machine to your android device with (USB / Bluetooth /...)
> 7. Install FiBo
>     8. If the installation is possible you can feel free to test the FiBo app
>     9. If the Installation is not possible you might need to adjust some settings
>         9.1. Check if you've allowed the setting allow [installation from unkown sources](https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-apps-from-unknown-sources-android/) in your android device 
>         9.2 Click "See details" and then "Install anyways" if google play protect prevents an easy installation
> 10. If asked, please grant FiBo any permissions it needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third approach (Real Android Device):
1. Download the APK located at the following location [github](https://github.com/Cebox82/FiBo/tree/master/apk) 
2. Save the downloaded apk file to your android device (USB / Bluetooth / directly downloaded from github)
3. Install FiBo
    4. If the installation is possible you can feel free to test the FiBo app
    5. If the Installation is not possible you might need to adjust some settings
        5.1. Check if you've allowed the setting: [allow installation from unkown sources](https://www.maketecheasier.com/install-apps-from-unknown-sources-android/) in your android device 
        5.2 Click "See details" and then "Install anyways" if google play protect prevents an easy installation
6. If asked, please grant FiBo any permissions it needs
```

| Test Designer     | Chris, Jens, Jonas, Lars, Markus     | Defines the technical approach to the implementation of the test effort. Responsibilities include:      define test approach, define test automation architecture, verify test techniques, define testability elements, structure test implementation  |
| Tester     | Chris, Jens, Jonas, Lars, Markus | Implements and executes the tests.  Responsibilities include: implement tests and test suites, execute test suites, log results, analyze and recover from test failures     document incidents |
| Test System Administrator | n/a | Ensures test environment and assets are managed and maintained. Responsibilities include: administer test management system, install and support access to, and recovery of, test environment configurations and test labs |
| Database Administrator, Database Manager |Jens, Markus | Ensures test data (database) environment and assets are managed and maintained. Responsibilities include: support the administration of test data and test beds (database) |

> | Designer | n/a | Identifies and defines the operations, attributes, and associations of the test classes. Responsibilities include: defines the test classes required to support testability requirements as defined by the test team |

Reviewer: Should we include any reasons?
